feat(ai-gateway): Add how-tos for using rerank APIs (Cohere and Bedrock) (#3787)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_how-tos/use-cohere-rerank-api.md

---
title: Use Cohere rerank API for document-grounded chat with AI Proxy in {{site.base_gateway}}
content_type: how_to
related_resources:
  - text: AI Gateway
    url: /ai-gateway/
  - text: AI Proxy
    url: /plugins/ai-proxy/
description: "Use Cohere's rerank API for retrieval-augmented text generation with automatic relevance filtering and citations."
breadcrumbs:
  - /ai-gateway/

products:
  - gateway
  - ai-gateway

works_on:
  - on-prem
  - konnect

min_version:
  gateway: '3.10'

plugins:
  - ai-proxy

entities:
  - service
  - route
  - plugin

tags:
  - ai

tldr:
  q: How do I use Cohere `/rerank` API with Kong AI Gateway?
  a: Configure the AI Proxy plugin with the Cohere provider and a chat model, then send queries with documents to get generated answers that automatically filter for relevance and include citations.

tools:
  - deck

prereqs:
  inline:
    - title: Cohere API Key
      content: |
        Before you begin, you must get a Cohere API key:

        - Sign up at [Cohere](https://cohere.com/)
        - Navigate to API Keys in your dashboard
        - Create a new API key

        Export the API key as an environment variable:
        ```sh

>         export COHERE_API_KEY="<your-api-key>"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        export DECK_COHERE_API_KEY="<your-api-key>"
```

  - q: What models support document grounding?
    a: |
      Cohere models including `command-a-03-2025` support document-grounded chat. Refer to the Cohere documentation for the complete list of available models.
---

## Configure the plugin

Configure AI Proxy to use Cohere's document-grounded chat:

{% entity_examples %}
entities:
  plugins:
    - name: ai-proxy
      service: rerank-service
      config:
        llm_format: cohere
        route_type: llm/v1/chat
        logging:
          log_payloads: false
          log_statistics: true
        model:
          provider: cohere
          name: command-a-03-2025
        auth:
          header_name: Authorization
          header_value: "Bearer ${cohere_api_key}"
variables:
  cohere_api_key:
    value: $COHERE_API_KEY
{% endentity_examples %}

## Use Cohere document-grounded chat

Cohere's document-grounded chat filters candidate documents and generates answers in a single API call. Send a query with candidate documents. The model selects relevant documents, generates an answer using only those documents, and returns citations linking answer segments to sources. This replaces multi-step RAG pipelines with one request.

> The following script sends a query about green tea with five candidate documents. Three documents contain relevant information about green tea's health benefits. Two documents discuss unrelated topics (the Eiffel Tower and Python programming). The script shows which documents the model selected, which it filtered out, and how the answer cites specific sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following script sends a query with 5 candidate documents to Cohere's chat endpoint. Three documents discuss green tea health benefits. Two documents are intentionally irrelevant (Eiffel Tower, Python programming).

The script attempts to show which documents the model used by comparing the `documents` field in the response to the input documents. This demonstrates whether Cohere's document-grounded chat filters out irrelevant documents automatically.
```
